---
layout: post
title: "Take the Minimal Information for Reporting an Ontology (MIRO) Survey!"
date: 2016-04-15
categories: update
summary: "James Malone, Robert Stevens and Chris Mungall would like you to take a survey on the importance of a set of guidelines for reporting on ontologies"
---

I have been working with Robert Stevens and James Malone on some
guidelines for Minimal Information for Reporting an Ontology
(MIRO). This effort is not affiliated with the OBO Foundry, but shares
some of the aims. We'd like your input, there is a survey that should
take you only 10 minutes here:

https://jamesmalone.typeform.com/to/uJIhzR

The survey asks you to rate the importance of each guideline and
optionally comment on each guideline - on any aspect including wording.
There's also an opportunity to say what you believe is missing.

The basic idea here is to try and come up with some guidelines for what
information should be reported when submitting a paper about an
ontology. Different reviewers may have different ideas about what is
required (note this is different from, but overlapping with, the
information we'd have in a registry such as the OBO library).

We'd like to find out what as wide a collection of people as we can
reasonably reach think are the minimal information for reporting on an
ontology. These guidelines will then be available to the community of
authors and reviewers to help make the process of disseminating
information about an ontology more consistent and contain what readers
need to see. These can form guidelines for both reviewers and authors of
papers. To do this we'd like to have as much ontology community input as
possible.

Once we have input we will review what we get as feedback and revise the
MIRO guidelines appropriately. We will also publish a summary of the
responses to the survey and what we plan to do in response.

We appreciate your help and feedback!

Robert Stevens (1), James Malone (2) and Chris Mungall (3)

1.  University of Manchester, UK
2.  FactBio, UK
3.  Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, USA
